As my time at CLARK comes to an end, I see this as the right opportunity to look back and reflect on all the things I have learnt and how I have grown over the last year and 8 months.
I have found some wonderful mentors who have helped me by providing me with critical feedback when required, while also encouraging me in the things I have doing right.
Of course, there are many things which could have been improved. Many things that I could have been different. But, life doesn't have a reset button and there's always something we could have done better or different.
## The biggest learning of all - Letting go of perfection
Before working at CLARK, I had mostly been working in a startup setup. 
At least for me, I am someone who takes pride in his code and believes in writing "perfect" code. Probably too inspired by some of the autobiographies where perfection is celebrated. But, it is here that I learnt that perfection is a myth and unachievable.
There is always good enough. Even though you might feel that your work is perfect. It is not. Come back to take a look at it couple of months later. You'll find things that you could improve. You'll find things that you wish you did different.
The catch is that most of us don't realise this. We are bound by the knowledge and world view we have at the given point in time and try to achieve perfect.
Trying to achieve perfect means that you don't create fast enough. The longer you take to create something, the longer the world has to wait for your creation. And a piece of art is worthless if it is just held to the artist. The world must see it for it to attain any kind of value. They might not like it. They may even hate it. But, that' the process that a piece of art must go through in order to be valuable to anyone in the world. What is a work of art if it is not valuable to none.
Anyways, I think I have deviated from the point that I was trying to make. There is always something you could do better. There's always something you could do different. But, you need to know the limit of what you want to achieve.
When you build something, you may think that you are working in isolation. In reality you are not. Even if it may not be apparent, you are affecting other people. When you work in a team, the relation is visible and direct.
But, when you work alone (let's say for a side project), you are sayiing NO to many things. You could be doing something else if you were not working on it. That impacts other people.
It is a very common adage that perfection is enemy of completion. I have burnt my hands a few times here in my pursuit to be perfect. I have tried to build perfect systems which nobody needed. It was just my imaginary future self which needed it. And ultimately, it leads to lost time and wasted effort. And also un-used code which someone has to maintain later on.
Also, we never know how the market will respond to the product you build. If the market loves it, you can always improve on your work later on. By then, you will have acquired even greater knowledge. But, if the feedback is poor on the product, that is hundreds of man hours saved. You wrote very simple code which did its job okayish. People didn't like it. Its easy to throw away a low-investment.